---
layout: single
title:  "Funding Announcement: DevOps for Software Defined Network (NSERC, MITACS, Telus, Kaloom)"
date:   2022-11-15 09:00:00 -0500
categories: funding
---


On November 15th, 2022, the project titled _A DevOps framework for developing, operating, and evolving SDN infrastructure and applications_ was awarded $900,000 to support the development of Software Defined Networks (SDN), from a DevOps point of view. 
{: .text-justify }

This project is funded by industiral partners Telus and Kaloom, as well as the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC Alliance Program) and Mathematics of Information Technology and Complex Systems (MITACS).
{: .text-justify }

This project started before the begining of the jPipe adventure, but was containing a large part related to the justification of decisions in DevOps pipeline. We ended up using jPipe in the project instead of the previously developed support for justification models, which was ad'hoc.
{: .text-justify }

# Abstract 

Software-defined networking (SDN) leverages software to virtualize networking resources and make them more customizable and versatile. As a result, SDN can offer significantly more capability and flexibility at less cost. 
Indeed, SDN is at the core of many ground-breaking advances to provide and access data and services in more powerful, adaptive, and efficient ways. 
Indeed, it is a key enabler for several major technological developments (e.g., 5G, the Internet of Things, Industry 4.0, and Smart Cities & Infrastructures) that promise to have far-reaching economic and societal impact.
To maximize the benefits of SDN and realize these visions, the techniques used to develop and evolve the software required for SDN infrastructures and applications must be as agile and effective as SDN itself. 
DevOps, a set of principles and techniques proposed recently to increase productivity and quality in the software industry, is ideally suited to satisfy this need.
The proposed research will develop an SDN DevOps framework, i.e., a unified, comprehensive set of notations, techniques, guidelines, case studies, and tools to capture, implement, and continuously measure and improve the lifecycle of SDN software as found in SDN infrastructure (e.g., data centres, data fabrics, self-adaptive networks) and applications (e.g., the services offered by communication providers). 
In collaboration with Kaloom and TELUS as industry partners, the research will give developers and operators much-needed guidance on how to bring more agility and quality to their SDN software lifecycles, despite the challenges that the heterogeneity of computing platforms and environments and the need to support modern and legacy applications pose. 
These results will improve the state-of-the-art in the Canadian software industry and allow Canada to realize the innovation potential of SDN and the technological and economic developments and visions that depend on it more fully. 
Moreover, the research will train a diverse group of 28 HQP and give them skills and expertise that are in high demand in the Canadian software and SDN industries.
{: .text-justify }

# Consortium

- Academic Partners:
  - Chaire de recherche industrielle Kaloom-Telus ([École de Technologie Supérieure](https://www.etsmtl.ca/))
    - Dr. Francis Bordeleau
  - Modeling & Analysis in Software Engineering Group ([Queen's University](https://www.mcscert.ca/))
    - Dr. Juergen Dingel
  - McMaster Centre for Software Certification ([McSCert](https://www.mcscert.ca/))
    - Dr. Sébastien Mosser
- Industrial Partners:
  - Telus:
    - Dr. Ali Tizghadam
  - Kaloom:
    - Dr. Bassem Guendy